- Below information is copied from https://fedi.tips
- Copyrights      The text of the articles are available to use on your own libre projects under [Creative Commons Attribution ShareAlike 4.0 ⧉](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/), you can attribute by crediting and linking back to [https://fedi.tips/](https://fedi.tips/)
-
- See https://fedi.tips/about-this-site/
-
- On Mastodon, hashtag following has been merged  into the latest version of the software and will be introduced in the  next update across all servers. It is already being tested on some  servers such as mastodon.social and mastodon.online.  If you’re on a server that runs it, you can  follow hashtags by logging in through the website, searching for a  hashtag and then clicking the follow button in the top right corner of  the results. Posts that are visible to your server which include that  hashtag will then appear in your normal timeline, even if you’re not  following the account that posted it. You can unfollow by searching for  the same hashtag and clicking the unfollow button (which is in the same  place the follow button was).  On Friendica, hashtag following has been  available as standard for years now, and works in a very similar way:  search for a hashtag and click the + logo in the top right corner to  follow it. Posts with that tag will appear in your normal timeline.  Whatever platform you’re following from, it’s a really handy way of discovering interesting posts and new accounts to follow.  Note that this only shows posts in your  timeline made after the follow began, so there may be a delay in seeing  such posts appear in your timeline, depending on whether a new post with  that tag has been published. Also, it only shows posts that are visible  to your server anyway, it is not pulling posts in purely on the basis  of the hashtag.       Because no one owns the Fediverse, there is no    central authority to give out “verified” badges the way Twitter etc do.    If you do see any Twitter-style verified badges these are just custom    emoji and don’t mean anything, it’s just people messing around.      There are various websites trying to set    themselves up as central authorities, but we strongly recommend avoiding    these completely. [The entire point of being on the Fediverse is to prevent any central authorities taking over](https://fedi.tips/mastodon-and-the-fediverse-beginners-start-here/#whoownsthefediverse).      However, there are still ways to actually verify your identity on the Fedi: If you’re already verified on Twitter etc, tell people about your    Fediverse account and link to it, then link to this post on your    Fediverse account. This will let people on the Fediverse know that    you’re the same person who owns the verified account on Twitter etc. If you have an official website, link to your Fediverse account from    your website and link to your website from your Fediverse account. If    people already trust your website to be official, then by extension they    will know your Fediverse account is official. On Mastodon, you can take the website method a step further. Log in through the website, go to *Edit profile > Verification*,    copy and paste the HTML code into your website’s front page’s code. Add    your website’s address into your profile’s Metadata section,    remembering to include https:// at the beginning. After you’ve done all    this, press the *Save changes* button in your profile settings.    You will then see a link to your website on your Mastodon profile which    has turned green with a green tick next to it, to verify you are the    site’s owner. If you need to verify lots of accounts from a group or organisation,    you might want to make your own Fediverse server as a subdomain of your    official website. This is what the European Union did when they made [their own Mastodon server ⧉](https://social.network.europa.eu/) and [their own PeerTube server ⧉](https://tube.network.europa.eu/).    Because the European Union’s official website is at europa.eu, and    their servers were all subdomains of europa.eu, it meant all the    accounts on their servers could be trusted as being official EU    Fediverse accounts. Making your own server on a subdomain [is much easier and cheaper than you think](https://growyourown.services/grow-your-own-social-network/).      And whatever you do, don’t use the “verified”    emoji. This means nothing at all on the Fediverse, anyone can add it to    their profiles.      **NOTE:** If you’re verifying    your Mastodon account using the code-pasting method, make sure that all    the links to your Mastodon account on your website include rel=”me” in    their link code. If there’s one without rel=”me”, for example in a    dropdown menu, the verification process may fail. Also, bear in mind    there may be some delay before your website address turns green on your    profile, don’t worry if it doesn’t happen straight away.      Using multiple accounts      First of all, it’s worth saying again that [most people do not need to use multiple accounts](https://fedi.tips/mastodon-and-the-fediverse-beginners-start-here/#doineedmultipleaccounts).    The Fediverse is designed in such a way that people on different    servers can interact seamlessly, as if they were all on one network.       However, some people may need separate    personal and work accounts, or an extra account that focuses on a    specialist topic which they wish to keep separate from their main    account.      Whatever your reasons, it’s very easy to use    multiple accounts on Mastodon and the Fediverse: all you have to do is    sign up on a different server for each account you want. Because the    servers are independent, you can use the same email address for each    account, and you can be signed into all the accounts simultaneously on    the web or on an app. Signing up for accounts on different servers also    means that if one server goes down you can use your alternative account    on another server.      If you use the Fediverse through the web, you    can log into all the accounts at once and switch views by keeping each    account open in a separate tab.      Official and third party apps support multiple    accounts too. You can be signed into all your accounts at once, and    switch between them within the app. The interface for switching differs    from app to app.      On the official Mastodon app, you can add    accounts and switch between them by holding down your profile image in    the bottom right corner. A menu will appear which lets you add or switch    accounts.
